# Intro
<!-- 
Beej's Guide to Python book source
vim: ts=4:sw=4:nosi:et:tw=72:spell:nojs
-->

_**This is an alpha-quality book. There are mistakes, oh yes. When you
find them, please drop an issue in GitHub, or a pull request, or email
me at [`beej@beej.us`](mailto:beej@beej.us). When the number of defects
gets low enough, I'll offer a print version.**_

Hey, everyone! Have you been thinking about learning to program? Have
you also been thinking of how to do it in the easy-to-approach Python
programming language?

Yes? Then this is the book for you. We're going to start with the
absolute basics and build up from there, building up to being an
intermediate developer and problem-solver! Python is the language we'll
be using to make this happen.

But by the end of the book, you will have developed programming
techniques that _transcend_ languages. After picking up Python, maybe
try another language like JavaScript, Go, or Rust. They all have their
own features to explore and learn.

## Audience

Beginning programmers. If you have limited experience or no experience,
this book is targeted at you!

Attitude Prerequisite: be inquisitive, curious, have an eye for puzzles
and problem solving, and be willing to take on difficult challenges.

Technical Prerequisite: be a computer user. You know what files are, how
to move them and delete them, what subdirectories (folders) are, can
install software, and how to type.

Are you a seasoned developer looking to start with Python? I'm sorry but
this is not likely to be the book you're looking for. It will progress
too slowly for your tastes. Just jump straight into [fl[the official
Python documentation|https://docs.python.org/3/]].

## Platform and Tools

I make an effort in this book to cover Mac, Windows, and Unix variants
(via Arch Linux).

We'll cover installing Python 3 and the Visual Studio Code editor. (Both
are free.) If you already have a code editor you prefer using (Vim,
Emacs, Sublime, Atom, PyCharm, etc.) feel free to use that. This book's
100% certified editor agnostic!


## Official Homepage and Books For Sale

The official location of this document is:

* [`http://beej.us/guide/bgpython/`](http://beej.us/guide/bgpython/)

There you will also find example code.

<!--
To buy nicely bound print copies (some call them "books"), visit:

* [`http://beej.us/guide/url/bgpbuy`](http://beej.us/guide/url/bgpbuy)

I'll appreciate the purchase because it helps sustain my document-writing
lifestyle!
-->

## Email Policy

I'm generally available to help out with [ix[email to Beej]] email
questions so feel free to write in, but I can't guarantee a response. I
lead a pretty busy life and there are times when I just can't answer a
question you have. When that's the case, I usually just delete the
message. It's nothing personal; I just won't ever have the time to give
the detailed answer you require.

As a rule, the more complex the question, the less likely I am to
respond. If you can narrow down your question before mailing it and be
sure to include any pertinent information (like platform, compiler,
error messages you're getting, and anything else you think might help me
troubleshoot), you're much more likely to get a response. For more
pointers, read ESR's document, [fl[How To Ask Questions The Smart
Way|http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html]].

If you don't get a response, hack on it some more, try to find the
answer, and if it's still elusive, then write me again with the
information you've found, and hopefully, it will be enough for me to help
out.

Now that I've badgered you about how to write and not write me, I'd just
like to let you know that I _fully_ appreciate all the praise the guide
has received over the years. It's a real morale boost, and it gladdens
me to hear that it is being used for good! `:-)` Thank you!


## Mirroring

[ix[mirroring]] You are more than welcome to mirror this site, whether
publicly or privately. If you publicly mirror the site and want me to
link to it from the main page, drop me a line at
[`beej@beej.us`](beej@beej.us).


## Note for Translators

[ix[translations]] If you want to translate the guide into another
language, write me at [`beej@beej.us`](beej@beej.us) and I'll link to
your translation from the main page. Feel free to add your name and
contact info to the translation.

This source markdown document uses UTF-8 encoding.

Please note the license restrictions in the [Copyright, Distribution,
and Legal](#legal) section, below.

If you want me to host the translation, just ask. I'll also link to it
if you want to host it; either way is fine.


## Copyright, Distribution, and Legal {#legal}

Beej's Guide to Python Programming is Copyright Â© 2019 Brian "Beej
Jorgensen" Hall.

With specific exceptions for source code and translations, below, this
work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution- Noncommercial-
No Derivative Works 3.0 License. To view a copy of this license, visit

[`https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/`](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/)

or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171 Second Street, Suite 300, San
Francisco, California, 94105, USA.

One specific exception to the "No Derivative Works" portion of the
license is as follows: this guide may be freely translated into any
language, provided the translation is accurate, and the guide is
reprinted in its entirety. The same license restrictions apply to the
translation as to the original guide. The translation may also include
the name and contact information for the translator.

The source code presented in this document is hereby granted to the
public domain, and is completely free of any license restriction.

Educators are freely encouraged to recommend or supply copies of this
guide to their students.

Unless otherwise mutually agreed by the parties in writing, the author
offers the work as-is and makes no representations or warranties of any
kind concerning the work, express, implied, statutory or otherwise,
including, without limitation, warranties of title, merchantability,
fitness for a particular purpose, noninfringement, or the absence of
latent or other defects, accuracy, or the presence of absence of errors,
whether or not discoverable.

Except to the extent required by applicable law, in no event will the
author be liable to you on any legal theory for any special, incidental,
consequential, punitive or exemplary damages arising out of the use of
the work, even if the author has been advised of the possibility of such
damages.

Contact [`beej@beej.us`](mailto:beej@beej.us) for more information.


## Dedication

Thanks to everyone who has helped in the past and future with me getting
this guide written. And thank you to all the people who produce the Free
software and packages that I use to make the Guide: GNU, Linux,
Slackware, vim, Python, Inkscape, pandoc, many others. And finally a big
thank-you to the literally thousands of you who have written in with
suggestions for improvements and words of encouragement.

I dedicate this guide to some of my biggest heroes and inspirators in the
world of computers: Donald Knuth, Bruce Schneier, W. Richard Stevens,
and The Woz, my Readership, and the entire Free and Open Source Software
Community.


## Publishing Information

This book is written in Markdown using the vim editor on an Arch Linux
box loaded with GNU tools. The cover "art" and diagrams are produced
with Inkscape. The Markdown is converted to HTML and LaTex/PDF by
Python, Pandoc and XeLaTeX, using Liberation fonts. The toolchain is
composed of 100% Free and Open Source Software.


